---
layout: post
category : blog
title: Moving House
tags : [Development]
---
<p>As a developer, upgrading to a new computer is like moving out of a house you have lived in for years - it can be fairly traumatic. This week I was lucky enough to get a new Macbook Pro and needless to say I was nervous about getting everything setup.  I have been hacking away on my old machine for a while now and everything was installed just the way I like, configured exactly the way I want. I could have used the Mac Migration tool to suck everything over, but I thought now would be the perfect time to get everything setup perfectly, leaving all the extra cruft behind. On top of getting everything setup I also had to ensure that there was no downtime, I don't want to be on the clock while trying to figure out why MySQL can't connect through the current socket or something.</p>
<h2>Preparation</h2>
<p>I am really thankful that <a href="https://github.com/beporter">beporter</a> beat the phrase 'Is it documented?' into my head every day over the years. His mantra was 'If that system was wiped off the face of the earth, what do we need to know to get it back to exactly the way it was?'. Due to this I have kept up a 'System Configuration' checklist so if I needed to setup a new computer I could be back up and running with minimal downtime. Whenever I installed anything, or adjusted app settings, I made sure to update my checklist. Running through the list in my head I realized that I had a lot of work to do! System settings, basic installations, then my work tools: XCode, MySQL, PHP, Apache, Ruby, Rails, RVM, Vim, Git, Jekyll, Gaeshi, and many more.  On top of that, I had to make sure my PATH settings were correct, configure Apache and MySQL, configure Vim... phew, thats a lot!</p>
<h2>Brew Install To The Rescue</h2>
<p>Due to my vigilance about documentation I had a clear set of tasks at hand - lots to install and lots to configure. Years ago I used to struggle mightily with getting Apache, MySQL, and PHP setup and installed correctly. I would sit for hours pounding my desk over socket errors and misconfigured PATHs. I would be confused about which version of Ruby was installed and where. The process of manually installing all these developer tools and keeping track of it all was a nightmare. Luckily a few months ago I made the jump to <a href="http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/">Homebrew</a> - a tool that installs and manages UNIX tools that are not included by Apple by default. Whats even better is Homebrew is designed to work without <code>sudo</code>, keeping things very simple.</p>
<p>Once I had XCode with Command Line Tools installed, <code>brew install</code> came to the rescue.  Within minutes I had Git, MySQL, Postgresql, Clojure, Leiningen, Mercurial, and even RVM installed. Homebrew has some very basic commands that are really powerful - <code>brew list</code> tells me what packages are installed and <code>brew update</code> updates <em>all</em> installed packages. You can even create your own <code>brew install</code> packages yourself.  Thanks to my documentation I got PHP enabled, my PATH's configured correctly, and VIM configured just the way I like it.</p>
<p>If you find yourself irritated with installing and managing all the different development tools then be sure to checkout <a href="http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/">Homebrew</a>, its worth it.</p>
